Add docs for modularized breaking changes (#11239)
hiero-ledger/hiero-mirror-node: docs/web3/modularized.md

contract calls and adjust expectations to reflect the consensus-backed behavior in the modularized
flow.

### 5. Behavior Change: Return Values vs Exceptions

**Impact**:
In some scenarios, contract calls that previously returned a default value (e.g., `0x`) may now result in an error,
or conversely, calls that previously threw an error may now return a benign fallback value (e.g., `false` or `0x`),
depending on the modularized flow’s interpretation of the state.

**Reason for change**:
The modularized flow improves internal consistency with the consensus node by aligning behavior
with smart contract execution semantics, particularly for missing or uninitialized state entries.
Rather than throwing exceptions for all unexpected conditions,
modularized flow may return fallback values when appropriate.

**Examples**:

- `eth_call` with a sender address that does not exist:

  - **Modularized**: Throws a `PAYER_ACCOUNT_NOT_FOUND` error
  - **Monolithic**: Returns `0x`

- Precompiled HTS contract call (e.g., `isToken`) on a token that has not yet been persisted:
  - **Modularized**: returns `false` or an empty result

>   - **Monolithic**: throws a `MirrorEvmTransactionException`

Author: Addressed

introduce breaking changes due to differences between the new modularized logic and
the old monolithic implementation, which is being deprecated.

## Breaking Changes

### 1. Contract Call Behavior on Invalid Input

**Impact**: Error responses may differ from the previous monolithic flow when handling malformed or
invalid input.

**Reason for change**: The modularized execution flow introduces more granular validation and status
reporting aligned with consensus node behavior.

**Details**: Some statuses like `CONTRACT_REVERT_EXECUTED`, `INSUFFICIENT_GAS`, and
`INVALID_SOLIDITY_ADDRESS` are common to both flows. However, the modularized flow introduces more
specific statuses such as `INSUFFICIENT_PAYER_BALANCE`, `INVALID_ALIAS_KEY`, `INVALID_CONTRACT_ID`,
and `MAX_CHILD_RECORDS_EXCEEDED`, providing clearer failure reasons.

**Resolution**: Update client-side logic to handle a wider range of status codes and to expect HTTP
`400` responses with more descriptive error messages.

### 2. Gas Estimation Logic

**Impact**: Gas estimation may now return slightly different results due to improved modeling
especially for contract deploy.

> **Reason for change**: Estimation logic has been updated to better reflect actual execution cost as in consensus node.
> **Resolution**: If comparing to old estimates, expect minor differences except for contract deployment.

Reviewer: Should be newlines between all sub-sections. Check other areas below too.

```suggestion
**Reason for change**: Estimation logic has been updated to better reflect actual execution cost as in consensus node.

**Resolution**: If comparing to old estimates, expect minor differences except for contract deployment.
```

Author: Addressed

**Resolution**: Review any tests or client logic that depend on the default KYC status returned by
contract calls and adjust expectations to reflect the consensus-backed behavior in the modularized
flow.

### 4. Error on Call to Non-Existent Contract

**Impact**: Calling a contract that does not exist may return a different status in the modularized
flow compared to the monolithic implementation.

**Reason for change**: The modularized flow validates contract existence directly against the
consensus node state and returns `INVALID_CONTRACT_ID`, while the monolithic flow previously would have returned
`INVALID_TRANSACTION` in this scenario.

**Details**: Client applications relying on a specific error code for missing contracts may behave
differently depending on the flow used.

**Resolution**: Update any error handling logic or tests expecting `INVALID_TRANSACTION` to also
handle `INVALID_CONTRACT_ID` when running against the modularized flow.

### 5. Negative Redirect Calls Return Different Errors

**Impact**: Contract calls that redirect and fail due to invalid input may produce
different error statuses between the monolithic and modularized flows.

> **Reason for change**: The modularized flow executes logic is resulting in standard EVM reverts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Reason for change**: The modularized flow execution logic results in standard EVM reverts
```

(e.g., `CONTRACT_REVERT_EXECUTED`) instead mono errors result in `INVALID_TOKEN_ID`.
**Details**: Affected functions include:

- `decimalsRedirect`
- `ownerOfRedirect`
- `tokenURIRedirect`

In these and similar cases:

- **Modularized**: Failing redirects result in `CONTRACT_REVERT_EXECUTED`
- **Monolithic**: Returned specific status codes such as `INVALID_TOKEN_ID`

**Resolution**: Update tests and error handling logic to account for `CONTRACT_REVERT_EXECUTED` and
`INVALID_TOKEN_ID`

### 6. Exchange Rate Precompile Called With Value Fails Differently

**Impact**: Sending non-zero `value` to the exchange rate precompile results in different errors.
**Reason for change**: The modularized flow rejects the call early with `INVALID_CONTRACT_ID`, while the
monolithic flow returns `CONTRACT_REVERT_EXECUTED`.
**Resolution**: Update tests and client logic to expect `INVALID_CONTRACT_ID` when calling precompiles

> with a non-zero value in the modularized flow.

Reviewer: I think we're missing the main breaking change which is calls to long-zero EVM addresses now fail and require the EVM address alias.

Think we're also missing we now return `0x` in some cases instead of error (or vice versa). I forget exact scenarios. There's a few in `ContractCallServiceTest` like `ethCallWithValueAndNotExistingSenderAddress` and `ethCallWithValueAndSenderContractFails`.

Another one to check is `dissociateWhenBalanceNotZeroFails` and `tokenNotPersistedYet`

Author: Documented
